# Compiler Project
## Description
### This project is a custom compiler developed using Python, leveraging the PLY (Python Lex-Yacc) library for parsing and lexical analysis. The compiler includes several components, each responsible for a different aspect of the compilation process:

Lexer (lexer.py): Handles lexical analysis, tokenizing the input source code.
Parser (parser.py): Parses the tokens generated by the lexer and builds an abstract syntax tree (AST) or another form of intermediate representation.
Semantic Cube (SCube.py): Implements a semantic cube to ensure semantic correctness of operations by verifying operand types and operation compatibility.
Virtual Machine (VM.py): Executes the code based on the intermediate representation or bytecode generated by the parser.
Symbol Table (symbol_table.py): Manages a table of symbols to track variable/function/class names and their attributes throughout the compilation process.
Function Directory (DirFun.py) and Class Directory (DirClass.py): Manage function and class definitions, including their properties and methods.
Quadruples (Cuadruplos.py): Generates and manages quadruples, an intermediate representation for storing instructions.

## Prerequisites
Python > 3.9
PLY library

## Setup
Ensure Python 3.9 or higher is installed on your system.
Install PLY using pip:
`pip install ply`
Running the Compiler
To run the compiler, run:
Python:
`python parser.py programFile.txt
python vm.py programName.txt`

The programName is defined at the start of the code in the program file, like this:
Code
`program programName;`

There are several example files in the repository such as test_fib.txt in which case running the program would look like this:
Code
`parser.py test_fib.txt`
`vm.py hola.txt`

All test programs come with program name set to 'hola' but can be changed.

Contributing
Contributions to this project are welcome. Please follow standard git practices for submitting pull requests or issues.
